Exercise: Deploy Your First Kubernetes Cluster
So far, you have learned that Kubernetes is a mechanism to manage containers at scale and that there are more than 160+ certified providers to bootstrap a cluster.

Now it's time for you to deploy your first Kubernetes cluster.

This exercise will focus on provisioning a vagrant box and installing a Kubernetes cluster using k3s.

Prerequisites
Make sure to have VirtualBox v6.1.xx or higher installed and running on your local machine.
You also need to install Vagrant v2.2.xx or higher on your machine. After installation, you can verify using:
vagrant --version
# Vagrant 2.2.xx
You should be in the /nd064_course_1/exercises folder in your local.
# Assuming you have already cloned the course repo as
git clone https://github.com/udacity/nd064_course_1.git
# Move to the exercise folder
cd nd064_course_1/exercises/
Examine the Vagrantfile present in the /nd064_course_1/exercises folder above.
Environment Setup
Provision a Vagrant box locally and install Kubernetes with k3s.

Create a vagrant box by using the command:
# Note: you need to be in the same repository as the Vagrantfile for this command to work
vagrant up
SSH into the vagrant box by using the command:
vagrant ssh
Deploy a Kubernetes cluster using k3s as: Assuming you are inside the Vagrant VM using the vagrant ssh command, run the following commands in the VM:
# Copy the commands from https://k3s.io/ to install the Lightweight Kubernetes in the Vagrant VM
curl -sfL https://get.k3s.io | sh -
# Switch the user to become root
sudo su
k3s kubectl get node
Examine your cluster using the following kubectl commands
# Run as root
# Get the control plane and add-ons endpoints
kubectl cluster-info
# Get all the nodes in the cluster
kubectl get nodes
# Get extra details about the nodes, including  internal IP
kubectl get nodes -o wide
# Get all the configuration details about the node, including the allocated pod CIDR
Note: you need to be root to access the kubeconfig file, use sudo su - before using kubectl commands
Exercise
Now you should have a Kubernetes cluster up and running. Examine the cluster and identity of the following details.

Use the blank space to record your answer if necessary,

Reflect
From the kubeconfig, identify:

the IP and port of the API server
authentication mechanism
Note: Refer to the main k3s installation guide, to find the location of the kubeconfig file.

Your reflection
/etc/rancher/k3s/k3s.yaml

Things to think about
See the solution page for details.

Reflect
From the cluster using kubectl commands to identify:

endpoints of the control plane and add-ons
amount of nodes
node internal IP
the pod CIDR allocate to the node
Note: To access kubectl commands you need to become root by using sudo su - command.

Your reflection
control-plane,master 1 node 10.0.2.15

Things to think about
See the solution page for details.



